.TH "cds_zuker_align" 1 "@RELEASEDATE@" "@PACKAGE@ @RELEASE@" "@PACKAGE@ Manual"

.SH NAME
.TP 
cds_zuker_align - generate suboptimal protein-based pairwise alignments of cds sequences 

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cds_zuker_optimal
.I [options]
.I sequence-file


.SH DESCRIPTION

.B cds_zuker_align
for a given pair of CoDing Sequences (introns spliced out) this
program will translate the CDSs into proteins, generate a set of
suboptimal alignments using an algorithm described by Michael Zuker.
The alignments will be back translated to the original coding
sequences.

The output can be returned as the optimal pairwise alignment in any
format that Sean Eddy's
.I SQUID
library will support.

.PP
Multiple sequence pairs can be provided within the same file.  They
will be processed as the first pair, second pair, etc.
  
.PP 
.I SQUID 
is a C library written by Sean Eddy.  Most of the standard sequence
file formats and alignment formats are supported.  I typically suggest using
FASTA, Clustalw, and PHYLIP formats with these programs as they are
some of the simplest.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -h
Print brief help; includes version number and summary of
all options, including expert options.

.TP
.B -v
Turn on verbose messages


.SH EXPERT OPTIONS

.TP
.B --optimal 
Only compute the optimal alignment and stop.

.TP
.B --upper_bound value
Upper bound for scores to use when generating suboptimal alignments.
You will have to get a feel for the scoring range of the data before
you can determine a sensible value here.

.TP
.B --lower_bound value
Lower bound for scores to use when generating suboptimal alignments.
You will have to get a feel for the scoring range of the data before
you can determine a sensible value here.

.TP
.B --maxtoshow value
Set the maximum number of alignments to show.  Default is 5.

.TP
.B --minlen value
Set the minimum length alignment you want to see. Default is 50 aa.

.TP
.B --matrix value
Specify a path to the substitution matrix to use.  By default this is
.I $SUBOPTDIR/matricies/aa/BLOSUM50
where
.I $SUBOPTDIR
is an environment variable.  If it is not provided the program will
look in ../matricies/aa/BLOSUM50.  If you change the matrix you should
also change the gapopen and extension penalties to be correct.

.TP
.B --gapopen value
Specify the gap opening cost. This is -10 by default.

.TP
.B --gapext value
Specify the gap extension cost.  This is -2 by default.

.TP
.B --gapchar value
Specify an alternate gap character from the default '-'



.SH AUTHOR

@PACKAGE@ and its documentation are @COPYRIGHT@
@LICENSE@
See COPYING in the source code distribution for more details, or contact me.

.nf
Jason Stajich
Duke University
Email: jason.stajich@duke.edu
.fi


