.TH "yn00_cds_optimal" 1 "@RELEASEDATE@" "@PACKAGE@ @RELEASE@" "@PACKAGE@ Manual"

.SH NAME
.TP 
yn00_cds_optimal - do a protein-based pairwise alignment of cds sequences and calculate dD,dS using the Yang-Nielsen 2000 method

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yn00_cds_optimal
.I [options]
.I sequence-file1


.SH DESCRIPTION

.B yn00_cds_optimal
for a given pair of CoDing Sequences (introns spliced out) this
program will translate the CDSs into proteins, align them using a
global (Needleman-Wunsch) or local (Smith-Waterman) alignment
algorithm, back translate the alignment into the original CDS sequence
and calculate the pairwise dN and dS values.  The output can be
returned either as the optimal pairwise alignment in any format that
Sean Eddy's
.I SQUID
library will support or as table of values which will include the
sequence names, dN, dS, Omega, t, S, N.

.PP
Multiple sequence pairs can be provided within the same file.  They
will be processed as the first pair, second pair, etc.
  
.PP 
.I SQUID 
is a C library written by Sean Eddy.  Most of the standard sequence
file formats and alignment formats are supported.  I typically suggest using
FASTA, Clustalw, and PHYLIP formats with these programs as they are
some of the simplest.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -h
Print brief help; includes version number and summary of
all options, including expert options.

.TP
.B -v
Turn on verbose messages

.TP
.B --showtable 
Calculate the synonymous (dS) and non-synonymous (dN) rates and print
them out as a table.

.TP
.B --output filename
Provide a filename for writing the output to rather than the default
of stdout.

.TP
.B --informat value
Specify the input sequence format.  The program will try to guess this
based on the file extension and the first line of the file.

.TP
.B --outformat value
Specify the alignment output sequence format.  The program will try to
guess this based on the file extension.  This will be PHYLIP by
default.


.SH EXPERT OPTIONS

.TP
.B --global
Using a global alignment algorithm rather than the default local
alignment.  This will attempt to find the optimal alignment path for
the entire length of both sequences rather than just the best local
alignment.

.TP
.B --matrix value
Specify a path to the substitution matrix to use.  By default this is
.I $SUBOPTDIR/matricies/aa/BLOSUM50
where
.I $SUBOPTDIR
is an environment variable.  If it is not provided the program will
look in ../matricies/aa/BLOSUM50.  If you change the matrix you should
also change the gapopen and extension penalties to be correct.

.TP
.B --gapopen value
Specify the gap opening cost. This is -10 by default.

.TP
.B --gapext value
Specify the gap extension cost.  This is -2 by default.

.TP
.B --gapchar value
Specify an alternate gap character from the default '-'

.TP
.B --noheader
Do not print a header describing the values of all the columns.  This
is helpful for large batch runs.


.SH AUTHOR

@PACKAGE@ and its documentation are @COPYRIGHT@
@LICENSE@
See COPYING in the source code distribution for more details, or contact me.

.nf
Jason Stajich
Duke University
Email: jason.stajich@duke.edu
.fi


