.TH "yn00_cds_prealigned" 1 "@RELEASEDATE@" "@PACKAGE@ @RELEASE@" "@PACKAGE@ Manual"

.SH NAME
.TP 
yn00_cds_optimal - do a protein-based pairwise alignment of cds sequences and calculate dD,dS using the Yang-Nielsen 2000 method

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yn00_cds_optimal
.I [options]
.I sequence-file


.SH DESCRIPTION

.B yn00_cds_prealigned
for a given pair of aligned CoDing Sequences (introns spliced out)
this program will calculate the pairwise dN and dS values using the
Yang and Nielsen (2000) method.  The output will be returned as a
table of values which will include the sequence names, dN, dS, Omega,
t, S, N.

.PP
Multiple sequence alignment pairs can be provided within the same file.  They
will be processed as the first pair, second pair, etc.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -h
Print brief help; includes version number and summary of
all options, including expert options.

.TP
.B -v
Turn on verbose messages

.TP
.B --output filename
Provide a filename for writing the output to rather than the default
of stdout.

.TP
.B --informat value
Specify the input sequence format.  The program will try to guess this
based on the file extension and the first line of the file.

.TP
.B --noheader
Do not print a header describing the values of all the columns.  This
is helpful for large batch runs.


.SH AUTHOR

@PACKAGE@ and its documentation are @COPYRIGHT@
@LICENSE@
See COPYING in the source code distribution for more details, or contact me.

.nf
Jason Stajich
Duke University
Email: jason.stajich@duke.edu
.fi


