.TH "zuker_align" 1 "@RELEASEDATE@" "@PACKAGE@ @RELEASE@" "@PACKAGE@ Manual"

.SH NAME
.TP 
zuker_align - Generate the optimal and a set of suboptimal protein
alignments.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zuker_align
.I [options]
.I sequence-file1


.SH DESCRIPTION

.B zuker_align
For a given pair of protein sequences or CoDing Sequences (introns
spliced out) this program will generate a set of sub-optimal
alignments based on the algorithm by Michael Zuker.  If the input
sequence is CDS the program will first translate them to protein using
the standard codon table. 

You can control the number and type of sub-optimal alignments to
generate by setting the --upper_bound, --lower_bound, --minlen, and
--max_to_show options.


.PP
Multiple sequence pairs can be provided within the same file.  They
will be processed as the first pair, second pair, etc.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -h
Print brief help; includes version number and summary of
all options, including expert options.

.TP
.B -v
Turn on verbose messages


.TP
.B --output filename
Provide a filename for writing the output to rather than the default
of stdout.

.TP
.B --informat value
Specify the input sequence format.  The program will try to guess this
based on the file extension and the first line of the file.

.TP
.B --outformat value
Specify the alignment output sequence format.  The program will try to
guess this based on the file extension.  This will be PHYLIP by
default.

.TP
.B --global
Using a global alignment algorithm rather than the default local
alignment.  This will attempt to find the optimal alignment path for
the entire length of both sequences rather than just the best local
alignment.
 
.SH EXPERT OPTIONS

.TP
.B --optimal 
Only compute the optimal alignment and stop.

.TP
.B --upper_bound value
Upper bound for scores to use when generating suboptimal alignments.
You will have to get a feel for the scoring range of the data before
you can determine a sensible value here.

.TP
.B --lower_bound value
Lower bound for scores to use when generating suboptimal alignments.
You will have to get a feel for the scoring range of the data before
you can determine a sensible value here.

.TP
.B --maxtoshow value
Set the maximum number of alignments to show.  Default is 5.

.TP
.B --minlen value
Set the minimum length alignment you want to see. Default is 50 aa.

.TP
.B --matrix value
Specify a path to the substitution matrix to use.  By default this is
.I $SUBOPTDIR/matricies/aa/BLOSUM50
where
.I $SUBOPTDIR
is an environment variable.  If it is not provided the program will
look in ../matricies/aa/BLOSUM50.  If you change the matrix you should
also change the gapopen and extension penalties to be correct.

.TP
.B --gapopen value
Specify the gap opening cost. This is -10 by default.

.TP
.B --gapext value
Specify the gap extension cost.  This is -2 by default.

.TP
.B --gapchar value
Specify an alternate gap character from the default '-'


.SH AUTHOR

@PACKAGE@ and its documentation are @COPYRIGHT@
@LICENSE@
See COPYING in the source code distribution for more details, or contact me.

.nf
Jason Stajich
Duke University
Email: jason.stajich@duke.edu
.fi


